These monolithic circuits are synchronous reversible ( up / down ) counters having a complexity of 55 equivalent gates . The ' 192 and LS192 circuits are BCD counters and the ' 193 and ' LS193 are 4 - bit binary counters . Synchronous operation is provided by having all flip - flops clocked simultaneously so that the outputs change coincidently with each other when so instructed by the steering logic . This mode of operation eliminates the output counting spikes are normally associated with asynchronous ( ripple- clock ) counters . The outputs of the four master - slave flip - flops are trig- gered by a low - to - high - level transition of either count ( clock ) input . The direction of counting is determined which count input is pulsed while the other count input is high . All four counters are fully programmable ; that is , each output may be preset to either level by entering the desired data at the data inputs while the load input is low . The output will change to agree with the data in- puts independently of the count pulses . This feature allows the counters to be used as modulo - N dividers by simply modifying the count length with the preset inputs . A clear input has been provided which forces all outputs to the low level when a high level is applied . The clear function independent of the count and load inputs . The clear , count , and load inputs are buffered to lower the drive requirements . This reduces the number of clock drivers , etc. , required for long words . These counters were designed to be cascaded without the need for external circuitry . Both borrow and carry outputs are available to cascade both the up- and down - counting functions . The borrow output produces a pulse equal in width to the count - down input when the counter underflows . Similarly , the carry output produces a pulse equal in width to the count - up input when an overflow condition exists . The counters can then be easily cascaded by feeding the borrow and carry outputs to the count - down and count - up inputs respectively of the succeeding counter . wherwise noted )