These synchronous presettable counters feature an inter-
nal carry look ahead for application in high speed counting

designs. The DM74ALS162B is a four-bit decade counter,
while the DM74ALS161B and DM74ALS163B are four-bit

binary counters. The DM74ALS161B clears asynchro-
nously, while the DM74ALS162B and DM74ALS163B clear

synchronously. The carry output is decoded to prevent

spikes during normal counting mode of operation. Synchro-
nous operation is provided by having all flip-flops clocked

simultaneously so that outputs change coincident with
each other when so instructed by count enable inputs and

internal gating. This mode of operation eliminates the out-
put counting spikes which are normally associated with

asynchronous (ripple clock) counters. A buffered clock

input triggers the four flip-flops on the rising (positive-
going) edge of the clock input waveform.

These counters are fully programmable, that is, the outputs
may be preset to either level. As presetting is synchronous,
setting up a low level at the load input disables the counter
and causes the outputs to agree with set up data after the
next clock pulse regardless of the levels of enable input.
LOW-to-HIGH transitions at the load input are perfectly
acceptable regardless of the logic levels on the clock or
enable inputs.
The DM74ALS161B clear function is asynchronous. A low
level at the clear input sets all four of the flip-flop outputs
LOW regardless of the levels of clock, load or enable
inputs. These two counters are provided with a clear on
power-up feature. The DM74ALS162B and DM74ALS163B
clear function is synchronous; and a low level at the clear
input sets all four of the flip-flop outputs LOW after the next
clock pulse, regardless of the levels of enable inputs. This
synchronous clear allows the count length to be modified
easily, as decoding the maximum count desired can be

accomplished with one external NAND gate. The gate out-
put is connected to the clear input to synchronously clear

the counter to all low outputs. LOW-to-HIGH transitions at
the clear input of the DM74ALS162B and DM74ALS163B
are also permissible regardless of the levels of logic on the
clock, enable or load inputs.

The carry look ahead circuitry provides for cascading

counters for n bit synchronous application without addi-
tional gating. Instrumental in accomplishing this function

are two count enable inputs (P and T) and a ripple carry
output. Both count enable inputs must be HIGH to count.
The T input is fed forward to enable the ripple carry output.
The ripple carry output thus enabled will produce a high
level output pulse with a duration approximately equal to
the high level portion of QA output. This high level overflow

ripple carry pulse can be used to enable successive cas-
caded stages. HIGH-to-LOW level transitions at the enable

P or T inputs of the DM74ALS161B through
DM74ALS163B may occur regardless of the logic level on
the clock.
The DM74ALS161B through DM74ALS163B feature a fully
independent clock circuit. changes made to control inputs
(enable P or T, or load) that will modify the operating mode
will have no effect until clocking occurs. The function of the
counter (whether enabled, disabled, loading or counting)
will be dictated solely by the conditions meeting the stable
set-up and hold times.