This synchronous, presettable, 4-bit binary
counter features an internal carry look-ahead
circuitry for application in high-speed counting
designs. Synchronous operation is provided by
having all flip-flops clocked simultaneously so that the outputs change coincident with each other when so
instructed by the count enable (ENP, ENT) inputs and internal gating. This mode of operation eliminates the
output counting spikes that are normally associated with asynchronous (ripple-clock) counters; however,
counting spikes may occur on the ripple carry (RCO) output. A buffered clock (CLK) input triggers the four
flip-flops on the rising (positive-going) edge of the clock input waveform.
This counter is fully programmable; that is, it may be preset to any number between 0 and 15. As presetting is
synchronous, setting up a low level at the load (LOAD) input disables the counter and causes the outputs to
agree with the setup data after the next clock pulse regardless of the levels of the enable inputs.
The clear function for the SN74F163A is synchronous and a low level at the clear (CLR) input sets all four of
the flip-flop outputs low after the next low-to-high transition of the clock regardless of the levels of the enable
inputs. This synchronous clear allows the count length to be modified easily by decoding the Q outputs for the
maximum count desired. The active-low output of the gate used for decoding is connected to the clear input to
synchronously clear the counter to 0000 (LLLL).
The carry look-ahead circuitry provides for cascading counters for n-bit synchronous applications without
additional gating. Instrumental in accomplishing this function are two count-enable (ENP, ENT) inputs and a
ripple-carry (RCO) output. Both ENP and ENT must be high to count, and ENT if fed forward to enable RCO.
RCO thus enabled will produce a high-level pulse while the count is 15 (HHHH). The high-level overflow
ripple-carry pulse can be used to enable successive cascaded stages. Transitions at ENP or ENT are allowed
regardless of the level of the clock input.
The SN74F163A features a fully independent clock circuit. Changes at control inputs (ENP, ENT, or LOAD) that
will modify the operating mode have no effect on the contents of the counter until clocking occurs. The function
of the counter (whether enabled, disabled, loading, or counting) will be dictated solely by the conditions meeting
the setup and hold times.
The SN74F163A is characterized for operation from 0°C to 70°C.