These synchronous, presettable, 4-bit decade
and binary counters feature an internal carry
look-ahead circuitry for application in high-speed
counting designs. The SN54ALS162B is a 4-bit
decade counter. The ′ALS161B, ′ALS163B,
′AS161, and ′AS163 are 4-bit binary counters.
Synchronous operation is provided by having all
flip-flops clocked simultaneously so that the
outputs change coincidentally with each other
when instructed by the count-enable (ENP, ENT)
inputs and internal gating. This mode of operation
eliminates the output counting spikes normally
associated with asynchronous (ripple-clock)
counters. A buffered clock (CLK) input triggers the
four flip-flops on the rising (positive-going) edge of
the clock input waveform.
These counters are fully programmable; they may
be preset to any number between 0 and 9 or 15.
Because presetting is synchronous, setting up a
low level at the load (LOAD) input disables the
counter and causes the outputs to agree with the
setup data after the next clock pulse, regardless of
the levels of the enable inputs.
The clear function for the ′ALS161B and ′AS161 is asynchronous. A low level at the clear (CLR) input sets all
four of the flip-flop outputs low, regardless of the levels of the CLK, LOAD, or enable inputs. The clear function
for the SN54ALS162B, ′ALS163B, and ′AS163 is synchronous, and a low level at CLR sets all four of the flip-flop
outputs low after the next clock pulse, regardless of the levels of the enable inputs. This synchronous clear
allows the count length to be modified easily by decoding the Q outputs for the maximum count desired. The
active-low output of the gate used for decoding is connected to CLR to synchronously clear the counter to
0000 (LLLL).
The carry look-ahead circuitry provides for cascading counters for n-bit synchronous applications without
additional gating. ENP and ENT inputs and a ripple-carry (RCO) output are instrumental in accomplishing this
function. Both ENP and ENT must be high to count, and ENT is fed forward to enable RCO. RCO, thus enabled,
produces a high-level pulse while the count is maximum (9 or 15 with QA high). The high-level overflow
ripple-carry pulse can be used to enable successive cascaded stages. Transitions at ENP or ENT are allowed,
regardless of the level of CLK.