These mutavibrators feature dual negative - transition - triggered inputs and a single positive transition - triggered input which can be used as an inhibit input . Complementary output pulses are provided . Pulse triggering occurs at a particular voltage level and is not directly related to the transition time of the input punice . Schmitt - trigger input circuitry ( TTL hysteresis ) for the B input allows jitter - free triggering from inputs with transition rates as slow as 1 volt / second . providing the circuit with an excellent noise immunity of typically 1.2 volts A high immunity to VCC noise of typically 1.5 volts is also provided by internal latching circuitry , Once fired , the outputs are independent of further transitions of the inputs and are a function only of the timing components Input pulses may be of any duration relative to the output pulse . Output pulse length may be vaned from 40 nanoseconds to 28 seconds by choosing appropriate timing components . With no external timing components Rint connected to VCC Cex : and Rext / ext noen ) , an output pulse of typically 30 or 35 nanoseconds it achieved which may be used as a dic triggered reset signal . Output rise and fall times are TTL compatible and independent of putse length Puise width stability is achieved through internal compensation and is virtually independent of Vog and temperature . In most applications putse stability will only be limited by the accuracy of external timing components Jimer - free operation is maintained over the full temperature and VCC ranges for more than six decades of timing capacitance 110 of to 10 and more than one decade of timing resistance ( 2 k to 30 k for the SN54121 and 2 KB to 40 KD for the SN741211 . Throughout these ranges , puise width is defined by the relationship wiout ) CextRyinz = 0.7 CestRT . In circuits where pulse cutoff is not critical , oming capacitance up to 1000F and timing resistance as low as 1.4 kB may be used . Also , the range of litter free output pulse widths is extended it VCC is held to 5 volts and free air temperature is 25 ° C . Duty cycles as high as 90 % are achieved when using maximum recommended RT Higher duty cycles are available if a certain amount of pulse - width ätter is allowed .